---
BEP: 0001
title: BEP Purpose and Guidelines
status: Active
type: Meta
author: Bumo Team
created: 2018-12-4
---

## What is an BEP?

BEP stands for Bumo Enhancement Proposal. An BEP is a design document providing information to the Bumo community, or describing a new feature for Bumo or its processes or environment. The BEP should provide a concise technical specification of the feature and a rationale for the feature. The BEP author is responsible for building consensus within the community and documenting dissenting opinions.

## BEP Rationale

We intend BEPs to be the primary mechanisms for proposing new features, for collecting community technical input on an issue, and for documenting the design decisions that have gone into Bumo. Because the BEPs are maintained as text files in a versioned repository, their revision history is the historical record of the feature proposal.

For Bumo implementers, BEPs are a convenient way to track the progress of their implementation. Ideally each implementation maintainer would list the BEPs that they have implemented. This will give end users a convenient way to know the current status of a given implementation or library.

## BEP Types

There are three types of BEP:

- A **Standard Track BEP** describes any change that affects most or all Bumo implementations, such as a change to the the network protocol, a change in block or transaction validity rules, proposed application standards/conventions, or any change or addition that affects the interoperability of applications using Bumo. Furthermore Standard BEPs can be broken down into the following categories. Standards Track BEPs consist of three parts, a design document, implementation, and finally if warranted an update to the [formal specification].
- An **Informational BEP** describes an Bumo design issue, or provides general guidelines or information to the Bumo community, but does not propose a new feature. Informational BEPs do not necessarily represent Bumo community consensus or a recommendation, so users and implementers are free to ignore Informational BEPs or follow their advice.
- A **Meta BEP** describes a process surrounding Bumo or proposes a change to (or an event in) a process. Process BEPs are like Standards Track BEPs but apply to areas other than the Bumo protocol itself. They may propose an implementation, but not to Bumo's codebase; they often require community consensus; unlike Informational BEPs, they are more than recommendations, and users are typically not free to ignore them. Examples include procedures, guidelines, changes to the decision-making process, and changes to the tools or environment used in Bumo development. Any meta-BEP is also considered a Process BEP.

It is highly recommended that a single BEP contain a single key proposal or new idea. The more focused the BEP, the more successful it tends to be. A change to one client doesn't require an BEP; a change that affects multiple clients, or defines a standard for multiple apps to use, does.

An BEP must meet certain minimum criteria. It must be a clear and complete description of the proposed enhancement. The enhancement must represent a net improvement. The proposed implementation, if applicable, must be solid and must not complicate the protocol unduly.

## BEP Work Flow

Parties involved in the process are you, the champion or *BEP author*, the [*BEP editors*](#BEP-editors)

:warning: Before you begin, vet your idea, this will save you time. Ask the Bumo community first if an idea is original to avoid wasting time on something that will be be rejected based on prior research (searching the Internet does not always do the trick). It also helps to make sure the idea is applicable to the entire community and not just the author. Just because an idea sounds good to the author does not mean it will work for most people in most areas where Bumo is used. Examples of appropriate public forums to gauge interest around your BEP include [the Bumo subreddit], [the Issues section of this repository], and [one of the Bumo Gitter chat rooms]. In particular, [the Issues section of this repository] is an excellent place to discuss your proposal with the community and start creating more formalized language around your BEP.

Your role as the champion is to write the BEP using the style and format described below, shepherd the discussions in the appropriate forums, and build community consensus around the idea. Following is the process that a successful BEP will move along:

```
[ WIP ] -> [ DRAFT ] -> [ LAST CALL ] -> [ ACCEPTED ] -> [ FINAL ]
```

Each status change is requested by the BEP author and reviewed by the BEP editors. Use a pull request to update the status. Please include a link to where people should continue discussing your BEP. The BEP editors will process these requests as per the conditions below.

* **Active** -- Some Informational and Process BEPs may also have a status of “Active” if they are never meant to be completed. E.g. BEP 1 (this BEP).
* **Work in progress (WIP)** -- Once the champion has asked the Bumo community whether an idea has any chance of support, they will write a draft BEP as a [pull request]. Consider including an implementation if this will aid people in studying the BEP.
* **Draft** -- Once the first draft has been merged, you may submit follow-up pull requests with further changes to your draft until such point as you believe the BEP to be mature and ready to proceed to the next status. An BEP in draft status must be implemented to be considered for promotion to the next status (ignore this requirement for core BEPs).
* **Accepted (Core BEPs only)** -- This BEP is in the hands of the Bumo client developers.  Their process for deciding whether to encode it into their clients as part of a hard fork is not part of the BEP process.
* **Final** -- This BEP represents the current state-of-the-art. A Final BEP should only be updated to correct errata.

Other exceptional statuses include:

* **Deferred** -- This is for core BEPs that have been put off for a future hard fork.
* **Rejected** -- An BEP that is fundamentally broken or a Core BEP that was rejected by the Core Devs and will not be implemented.
* **Active** -- This is similar to Final, but denotes an BEP which which may be updated without changing its BEP number.
* **Superseded** -- An BEP which was previously final but is no longer considered state-of-the-art. Another BEP will be in Final status and reference the Superseded BEP.

## What belongs in a successful BEP?

Each BEP should have the following parts:

- Preamble - RFC 822 style headers containing metadata about the BEP, including the BEP number, a short descriptive title (limited to a maximum of 44 characters), and the author details. See [below](https://github.com/bumoproject/BEPs/blob/master/BEPS/bep-0001.md#BEP-header-preamble) for details.
- Simple Summary - “If you can’t explain it simply, you don’t understand it well enough.” Provide a simplified and layman-accessible explanation of the BEP.
- Abstract - a short (~200 word) description of the technical issue being addressed.
- Motivation (*optional) - The motivation is critical for BEPs that want to change the Bumo protocol. It should clearly explain why the existing protocol specification is inadequate to address the problem that the BEP solves. BEP submissions without sufficient motivation may be rejected outright.
- Specification - The technical specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature. The specification should be detailed enough to allow competing, interoperable implementations for any of the current Bumo platforms.
- Rationale - The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported in other languages. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.
- Backwards Compatibility - All BEPs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The BEP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. BEP submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.
- Test Cases - Test cases for an implementation are mandatory for BEPs that are affecting consensus changes. Other BEPs can choose to include links to test cases if applicable.
- Implementations - The implementations must be completed before any BEP is given status “Final”, but it need not be completed before the BEP is merged as draft. While there is merit to the approach of reaching consensus on the specification and rationale before writing code, the principle of “rough consensus and running code” is still useful when it comes to resolving many discussions of API details.
- Copyright Waiver - All BEPs must be in the public domain. See the bottom of this BEP for an example copyright waiver.

## BEP Formats and Templates

BEPs should be written in [markdown] format.

## BEP Header Preamble

Each BEP must begin with an RFC 822 style header preamble, preceded and followed by three hyphens (`---`). The headers must appear in the following order. Headers marked with "*" are optional and are described below. All other headers are required.

` BEP:` <BEP number> (this is determined by the BEP editor)

` title:` <BEP title>

` author:` <a list of the author's or authors' name(s) and/or username(s), or name(s) and email(s). Details are below.>

` * discussions-to:` \<a url pointing to the official discussion thread\>

 - :x: `discussions-to` can not be a Github `Pull-Request`.

` status:` <Draft | Last Call | Accepted | Final | Active | Deferred | Rejected | Superseded>

`* review-period-end:` YYYY-MM-DD

` type:` <Standards Track (Core, Networking, Interface, ERC)  | Informational | Meta>

` * category:` <Core | Networking | Interface | ERC>

` created:` <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>

` * requires:` <BEP number(s)>

` * replaces:` <BEP number(s)>

` * superseded-by:` <BEP number(s)>

` * resolution:` \<a url pointing to the resolution of this BEP\>

#### Author header

The author header optionally lists the names, email addresses or usernames of the authors/owners of the BEP. Those who prefer anonymity may use a username only, or a first name and a username. The format of the author header value must be:

Random J. User &lt;address@dom.ain&gt;

or

Random J. User (@username)

if the email address or GitHub username is included, and

Random J. User

if the email address is not given.

Note: The resolution header is required for Standards Track BEPs only. It contains a URL that should point to an email message or other web resource where the pronouncement about the BEP is made.

The type header specifies the type of BEP: Standards Track, Meta, or Informational. If the track is Standards please include the subcategory (core, networking, interface, or ERC).

The category header specifies the BEP's category. This is required for standards-track BEPs only.

The created header records the date that the BEP was assigned a number. Both headers should be in yyyy-mm-dd format, e.g. 2001-08-14.

BEPs may have a requires header, indicating the BEP numbers that this BEP depends on.

BEPs may also have a superseded-by header indicating that an BEP has been rendered obsolete by a later document; the value is the number of the BEP that replaces the current document. The newer BEP must have a Replaces header containing the number of the BEP that it rendered obsolete.

Headers that permit lists must separate elements with commas.

## Auxiliary Files

BEPs may include auxiliary files such as diagrams. Such files must be named BEP-XXXX-Y.ext, where “XXXX” is the BEP number, “Y” is a serial number (starting at 1), and “ext” is replaced by the actual file extension (e.g. “png”).

## Transferring BEP Ownership

It occasionally becomes necessary to transfer ownership of BEPs to a new champion. In general, we'd like to retain the original author as a co-author of the transferred BEP, but that's really up to the original author. A good reason to transfer ownership is because the original author no longer has the time or interest in updating it or following through with the BEP process, or has fallen off the face of the 'net (i.e. is unreachable or isn't responding to email). A bad reason to transfer ownership is because you don't agree with the direction of the BEP. We try to build consensus around an BEP, but if that's not possible, you can always submit a competing BEP.

If you are interested in assuming ownership of an BEP, send a message asking to take over, addressed to both the original author and the BEP editor. If the original author doesn't respond to email in a timely manner, the BEP editor will make a unilateral decision (it's not like such decisions can't be reversed :)).

## BEP Editors

The current BEP editors are

` * Zhao Zhengyong (@zhaozhengyong)`

## BEP Editor Responsibilities

For each new BEP that comes in, an editor does the following:

- Read the BEP to check if it is ready: sound and complete. The ideas must make technical sense, even if they don't seem likely to get to final status.
- The title should accurately describe the content.
- Check the BEP for language (spelling, grammar, sentence structure, etc.), markup (Github flavored Markdown), code style

If the BEP isn't ready, the editor will send it back to the author for revision, with specific instructions.

Once the BEP is ready for the repository, the BEP editor will:

- Assign an BEP number (generally the PR number or, if preferred by the author, the Issue # if there was discussion in the Issues section of this repository about this BEP)

- Merge the corresponding pull request

- Send a message back to the BEP author with the next step.

Many BEPs are written and maintained by developers with write access to the Bumo codebase. The BEP editors monitor BEP changes, and correct any structure, grammar, spelling, or markup mistakes we see.

The editors don't pass judgment on BEPs. We merely do the administrative & editorial part.

## History

This document was derived heavily from [Bitcoin's BIP-0001] written by Amir Taaki which in turn was derived from [Python's PEP-0001]. In many places text was simply copied and modified. Although the PEP-0001 text was written by Barry Warsaw, Jeremy Hylton, and David Goodger, they are not responsible for its use in the Bumo Enhancement Process, and should not be bothered with technical questions specific to Bumo or the BEP. Please direct all comments to the BEP editors.

See [the revision history for further details](https://github.com/bumoproject/BEPs/commits/master/BEPS/bep-0001.md), which is also available by clicking on the History button in the top right of the BEP.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
